# BOSSBiddingDatabaseProject
Created relational tables using SQL

 1. Brief Description of the Project 
BOSS (Bidding Online System) is SMU's system for the registration of courses. BOSS is intended to empower students with the choice of selecting the courses they wish to enroll for in any one term. The objective of this course project is for student teams to develop a BOSS database system that can support the key features specified in this document. 

2. Key Features of the Project 
To simplify the course project, the following are the only functions that your BOSS database system has to support. If any of the functions is different from the one offered by the actual BOSS system, please adhere to the functions specified in this document. Please ignore other functions that actual BOSS may offer. 
In addition, we assume the database system is for one academic term use only. The attributes that your system must keep track of are specified in this document: your system should not keep track of any attribute that is not mentioned in this document, unless it is necessary to support the listed required functions in this document. 

2.1 Function 1: School Information 
SMU comprises of six distinguished schools, each offering one or multiple undergraduate programmes (in short, programmes) that transform a student to help him/her reach his/her fullest potential. Most of the programmes are only offered by one school, while there are a few programmes co-offered by two schools (e.g., Bachelor of Science (Computing & Law) is jointly offered by the School of Information Systems and School of Law). When a programme is offered by two schools, one of the schools serves as the home school of the programme; when a programme is offered by only one school, that school is the home school of the programme. For each school, the database system keeps track of Name (unique), Address (unique) and URL of the school website (unique). For each programme, the database records the PID (unique) and name of the programme (unique), the school(s) that offer(s) the programme, and its home school.
2.2 Function 2: Course Information 
Each programme offers many courses. BOSS keeps track, for each course, the CID (unique), title, the programme that offers the course, SectionsOffered, and TotalCapacity. Each course is offered by one and only one programme, while a programme offers many courses. SectionsOffered captures the total number of sections offered by the course (sections will be explained in the next function) and TotalCapacity records the total number of seats available across all its sections in the current academic term. 
In addition, among all the courses offered in SMU, each programme specifies a list of core courses, and a list of elective courses, which shall be recorded by BOSS. A course might be an elective or a core course for a programme, but it will not be both a core and an elective course for any programme. A programme might select a course offered by itself or another programme as a core course or an elective course, and a particular course could be a core for one programme but an elective for another programme. For example, IS112 is offered by Bachelor of Science (Information Systems), and it is a core course of Bachelor of Science (Information Systems) and Bachelor of Science (Computer Science), and an elective of Bachelor of Accountancy and Bachelor of Business Management. 

2.3 Function 3: Section Information 
A course has one or multiple sections, depending on the demand of the course. BOSS records for each section: SNo that can differentiate sections of the same course; Schedule that specifies the (exactly one) day of the week that the section will be offered, and its start and end time on that day; and Capacity that captures the total number of seats available in that section. 
Note, sections of different courses might share the same SNo, and sections of one course or different courses could have different capacities. Recall that this BOSS database system is for one academic term use only, so there is no need to consider the case where a course offers a different number of sections in different academic terms. We assume Capacity of any section is decided before BOSS allows students to bid for different sections.

2.4 Function 4: Student Information 
SMU has many students. BOSS records, for each student, SID (unique), Name, Email (unique), the programme that the student is primarily enrolled to and the school the student belongs to. Note, a student belongs to the school that serves as the home school of the programme she/he is primarily enrolled to and we assume each SMU student is first enrolled in one SMU programme. Also, each student has an e-dollar account and students use e-dollar for bidding courses. We assume the e-dollar allocation policy is beyond the scope of this project. However, BOSS needs to record the initial e-dollar amount allocated to each student before course bidding and the current e-dollar balance. Different students could have different amount of e-dollars initially. 
Among all SMU students, some are second-major students or double-degree students. Note that a second-major student cannot be a double-degree student and vice versa, and many students are neither second-major nor double-degree. 
In addition to the basic data of each student, BOSS also tracks for each double-degree student the second programme that she/he is in, and the cumulative GPA; and for each second-major student the StartDate (i.e., the date the student declared the second major); and the school with which the student is doing the second major. 
To simplify our project, we assume that a second-major student is doing only one second major. 

2.5 Function 5: BOSS Bidding Rounds 
Students have the freedom to select the courses they want to take, and SMU provides BOSS to facilitate the bidding. There are multiple BOSS Rounds. For each bidding round, BOSS records RID (unique), StartDateTime, and EndDateTime. 
For example, BOSS Round 1 opens at 10:00 am on 5 November 2018, and it ends at 10:00 am on 7 November 2018. Each section releases a certain number of seats for bidding in each round, based on the number of available seats for that section and some other information external to the database. 
For example, Section 1 of IS112 releases 35 out of 50 seats for bidding in round 1, it releases another 5 seats for bidding in round 1A, and so on; Section 2 of IS112 releases 30 seats out of 45 seats for bidding in round 1, it releases another 3 seats for bidding in round 1A and so on. The number of seats released by each section for bidding in each round is recorded by BOSS, and sections of the same course may open different numbers of seats for bidding in the same round. Dependent on the programmes students are enrolled in, they are eligible to bid their core/elective courses in different BOSS bidding rounds.

For each core/elective course of a programme, BOSS records, the earliest BOSS bidding round that all students are eligible to participate in the course bidding. Note that if students are eligible to submit biddings in a BOSS bidding round, they are eligible to submit biddings in all the subsequent BOSS bidding rounds. 
For example, course IS112 is both a core course of Bachelor of Science (Information Systems) programme and an elective course of Bachelor of Accountancy programme. Students of Bachelor of Science (Information Systems) can participate in the course bidding for IS112 from BOSS bidding round 1 onwards, and students of Bachelor of Accountancy can participate in the course bidding for IS112 only from BOSS bidding round 2 onwards. As we do not include the detailed second majors in this project, we skip the biddings eligibility related to second majors. 

2.6 Function 6: Course Bidding 
Students can submit bids to enroll for their favorite sections. For each bid, BOSS needs to record the student who submits the bid; the course and the section that the bid is for; the round in which the bid is submitted; the amount of e-dollars and the datetime of the bid; and outcome, a boolean that records whether the bid is successful. If the bid is successful, the amount of e-dollars specified in the bid is deducted from the student’s e-dollar balance. In most cases, students submit one bid for each course they want to take in one round. However, in the event that a student submits multiple bids for the same course in one round, BOSS only records the latest bid.
